dry run

08.07.25

The Shah's nephew's boyfriend and his entourage of equally-disinterested and more-enrobed associates entered Councourse A via Gate 16, the gate of a set which would form a heavy intake point, the point being to simulate what it would look and feel like to be arriving into the airport for real. I had originally tried to convince the SNB to arrive via plane, ie after having flown a serious distance, so as to better grasp the experience. Gates 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 formed a kind of de facto funnel through which the passengers from London and Paris and New York would arrive. I explained to the group why it's actually more efficient to group together the busy routes into tight pockets rather than to spread out arrivals more evenly, including specifically the more accessible parts of the theory behind it, the parts which I thought maybe would maintain their attention, and which didn't at all. 

It seemed perplexing how little the SNB, still sunglassed, indoors, and his similarly sunglassed acommaniment seemed to care about what was happening. The airport, once opened, would be the largest (by both area and total volume of structures) and most expensive in the world. And via statorithmic architecture it would undoubtedly be the most efficient. I bumped into a cardboard cutout of a Japanese family as I was explaining the reason for the specific distances between gates and the relationship between those distances and distances between trach cans and drinking fountains to a wholly disinterested SNB, and I kept explaining this in startled spurts, while falling slowly in that way where you aren't really falling but just slowly approaching the ground, inevitably, shifting my weight here and there as my wrists and elbows and angles buckle under unexpected load. The SNB and  his cohort did not acknowledge that this happened, despite the event seemingly giving the SNB reason to look up from his phone. He was here because The SN was by all accounts a petulant moron and who didn't like to do this kind of thing anyway, and The Shah himself had been to so many of these types of things during the massive economic surge of his country over the previous few decades that they were by now to him like going out to get coffee on a Thursday afternoon because you have nothing else to do. It seemed to me that The SNB was as good as I would get, despite the tenuousness of his position. I had hoped he would be accompanied by some Relevant Business Leader or Government Official who I could at least have a real conversation with (about statorithmic architecture) but it seemed that the entourage's members' concerns were based around proximity to The SNB, and thus to The SN, and thus to The Shah. This whole thing, I thought, and all the Official Things like it were, to them, like the group stages of some sports event through which one could elevate oneself top the next level with an insightful comment or plain old shameless ingratiation.

The cardboard cutouts of people and whatever infrastructure hadn't yet been installed/built proper, were in their thousands. They had been specially ordered and at great expense due to the range of individual designs required. The airport, like most others, was designed for basically unlimited versions of people and not the array of sixteen(!) cutouts as had originally been suggested by somebody further up the chain. For a true test run to work with the small handful (hundreds) of testers who would be arriving later that day, the design would need to be as true to life as possible. People find it difficult enough to act normally, let alone when they are testing out the spatial design framework of an airport, and let alone when they are doing so surrounded by hundreds of clones of the same Vietnamese family. Or I least I figured they looked Vietnamese. I told them no, you have to get the factory to just do it, whatever it costs, if you want the test to prove what I already know.

A sticking issue was the butterfly garden. The SN had all-but demanded we have one, because he had been to the one at Changi and thought it was quote "beyond beauty itself", which it wasn't, by the way. Incorporating this was fine-by-me. A common cheat among statorithmic architecture students, at least when I was studying the concept, before it was even called statorithmic architecture, was to lay a semi-interesting feature opposite and in parallel with an essential walkway that requires a moderate rate of dispersal/spread away from the point of entry side of the walkway. This was an easy way to do the necessary thing of separating Float Cluster Individuals from Zone Maker Individuals and Source Wive Individuals. The reason it was considered a cheat or just plain lazy was because you can't put necessary infrastructure along the featured thing because it is necessarily something pointless like a totally inaccessible butterfly garden tunnel. And the butterflies were, as always, inactive. You don't understand how inactive butterflies really are until you've spent months working next to them. Even when people went in and out, including the SNB and his posse just earlier, barely anything stirred.
