magic: the gathering cards that I like (in no particular order)

22.06.25

rocco, street chef  
emry, lurker of the loch  
beza, the bounding spring  
yorion, sky nomad  
thragtusk  
restoration angel  
approach of the second sun  
solitary confinement  
kessig wolf run  
rosie cotton of south lane  
cemetery tampering  
angel of serenity  
dour port-mage  
perch protection  
mikokoro, center of the sea  
rivendell  
oona, queen of the fae  
diabolic revelation  
kami of the crescent moon  
karametra, god of harvests  
heartwood storyteller  
selvala, explorer returned  
rukarumel, biologist  
mana tithe  
oblation  
quirion ranger  
magus of the vineyard  
yasharn, implacable earth  
illusionist's bracers  
zimone and dina  
strionic resonator  
omnath, locus of all  
villainous wealth  
maelstrom wanderer  
urabrask, heretic praetor  
runaway steam-kin  
galadriel of lothlorien  
escape to the wilds  
showdown of the skalds  
jhoira of the ghitu  
matter reshaper  
rendmaw, creaking nest
jenson carthalion, druid exile
