statorithmic architecture

02.07.25

"It really is basically a simple concept at the heart, in its centre. The principles are, like, to do with urban planning, street planning, city planning, that sort of thing. But the numbers are backwards. Say for instance we are driving and we hit a T-junction and it says 'right turn only' at the junction, on the sign, and so we obviously turn right. But every once in a while some person who, for whatever reason, maybe they missed the sign and the road markings or they are a new driver or they are literally belligerent, they make a left. For example's sake let's say that one percent of vehicles do this. Obviously it's much lower, but for the sake of example. So as a municipal employed person I can take this statistic and use that to make improvements, etcetera. Okay so statorithmic architecture is like this, but rather than a sign that says 'right turn only' it's a sign that says 'Gates 14-35', and the sign is blue, and the text is italicised, both of which are important. Okay and now let's say we have 100 people walking towards that sign, regardless of whether these people need to follow the directions on the sign or whatever, that just isn't important. What we know is that the design of this thing leads 34 of the 100 people, on average, to list towards the right. List, it means like to drift. A very slight change in direction, subconsciously driven. Imagine you actually want lots of people to funnel this way, because it helps with the flow of foot traffic in a broad economic sense. The economics of space. We need people to keep moving and disperse and what have you. This is a busy place and you can't just have nothing anywhere because people will walk in circles and stand still. Okay next, just beyond the sign, beneath it, is a Donut Pal and it is positioned not quite centrally underneath the sign. You've seen these, they are mostly the same, they are circular and basically walled off apart from a cutout for serving customers. It's like a rook, or a little fort, or whatever, I don't know I'm not involved in their branding. But say we have this and we position this where I said: now, on average, you've got 25 people listing to the right. Because this thing is there, yeah. But no, that's not right, we're not up to 59 people, you don't add them together. It's way more complicated, there are algorithms and stuff. Now let's say you have another twenty things, some actual things that you can notice and describe, and some imperceptible things that you wouldn't notice. Okay so like the shape of the negative space that appears when you intersect the shape of a small palm tree and a currency exchange counter and a sign that says "trolley return". We have figured out all of these things and put them together in such a way that we can get people from A to B in this place. No it isn't mind control. It's the 'no right turn' sign, but except it's a carpet square that happens to be very slightly a different shade of brown than the rest and a small fraction of people are subconsciously driven, by themselves, to move to the left of it. Because do you know the problem with airports of scale? The problem is there are millions of people who move through these things per day and the ones that fail over time are the ones that have no idea whatsoever how and why people are navigating them the way they do. This is what I hate. Here you are in a place surrounded by people you will very likely never be close to again and they are generally, on average, some of the most distinct-from-you people you will ever have access to. This is objectively fantastic, and yet people hate flying and they generally hate being in airports. They are broadly extremely hostile, like to the senses which have been primed by long flights and dehydration and sleep deprivation already. Surely you must have felt it when you walked into this place, off your flight, yes? Like you were picked up by a breeze and it took you exactly where you needed to go. Sure yeah but you know what I mean. Yes, you did decide to come here. I'm not saying like the airport is mind-controlling you. Look at it this way: you see a door that says 'do not enter'. You are not being mind-controlled when you decide to follow the instruction. Because this isn't instruction, this is suggestion. You can choose to do whatever you want, and you choose to follow the suggestion. In the same way you choose to walk on the left side of Concourse B between that huge pizza vending machine and Donut Pal L-17b(1). It's just a naming mechanism we had to come up with. In fact I will tell you this, and this is why I came over to talk to you, in addition to the obvious thing I want to talk to you about. Based on the mathematics of all this, if you disembarked your flight at gate, what was it, 62? And you wanted to go to a bar, but you didn't know what bar you wanted to go to, and you didn't even know what bars are in this airport specifically, only one person in four thousand ends up at this one."
