the butterfly garden

20.06.25

I am in a butterfly garden in the airport in Singapore. This is a real place, or at least it was real at the time of me being there. I remember how I am amazed at how it is a real butterfly garden and not a loose collection of souvenir, coffee, misc. travel accessory shops and currency exchanges. Malls tend to have things like this to differentiate themselves and promote themselves above other malls - something as esoteric and contextually unexpected as a butterfly garden seems weird when I don't feel like I've ever based my choice of connecting airport on anything other than time/affordability.  Like who says "We need to travel via Singapore because their butterfly garden is better than Kuala Lumpur's model train exhibit and Bangkok's wacky mirror-and-hedge maze, which suck."

I imagine an airport with not just a butterfly garden, but also a small indoor roller coaster, and a full resort hotel and casino whose lobby contains the world's largest ice sculpture of the certificate for the world's largest ice sculpture certificate (and so on). The words themselves are sculpted ouroborosly around the certificate. I imagine a donut-and-coffee chain that operates a number of locations within the airport such that there is always at least one location in eyeshot of any other location. I imagine a sharp and copyrighted yellow illuminating gate numbers and directional arrows and the international symbols for toilet, shower, and water. I imagine a bar, jutting out of the side of the hotel which itself is situated under a glass dome in the centre of Concourse B, floating above this Concourse, through which hordes of travellers twist and swell.

I wake up in the imagined butterfly garden. The false atmosphere is clingy and humid. Unlike Singapore's butterfly garden, this one is inside an arch-shaped tunnel which snakes 3/8ths the length of Concourse A and there is no public entrance or exit. For the sake of authenticity, recorded rainforest sounds play on a loop (rain, misc. insects, the occasional distant caw), but none of this can be heard outside the tunnel on account of the half-inch thick single-piece specially-ordered glass tunnelwork. The butterfly garden here, for reasons of hygeine, practicality, and Statorithmic Architecture (I will explain this later), is therefore sealed off to non-staff travelers. Ironically, the greenhouse-ness of the tunnel interior means that the glass is covered in a mist-film intermittently streaked by snowballing water droplets, hence nobody can really see inside either. From within, it's a nightmare of fronds. Aside from an occasional flutter, the butterflies are lazy or alseep or otherwise disinterested. The mist-film clings to me also.

The world I'm in now is part of the same fictional universe as a novella I wrote more than a decade ago. That work tells a story occurring in parallel to a more important story whose characters appear only sporadically (and under circumstances mostly unexplained to the reader) in the main story. I realise now that I was highly influenced by FINAL CRISIS, a DC Comics miniseries written by Grant Morrison, which received a lot of criticism from readers for skipping over and/or not describing and/or only referring to major story events in off-handed dialogue from the POV characters - mostly low-level characters known only by seasoned readers. For example: Superman is whisked away into the future at the beginning of the comic and only reappears at the end to save the day, having spent the intervening period having his own mostly self-contained adventure told via the pages of a supplemental miniseries of his own. The same thing too basically happens to Batman. The introduction of the main villain and subsequent Final Battle take place over three pages. I can understand how this can be frustrating to people who "need to know what's happening", but I've never felt this way at all; instead I find it liberating as a reader because the focus becomes the immediate thing happening at any given moment and not some grander thing or theme that I'm going to forget about anyway. Also it's not real.

